Puja Patidar

November 23, 2019

Foundations of Programming: Python Assignment 07

Importing pickle file
Introduction
In this paper I am going over how imported file in PyCharm with the instructional help of Randal Root,. we can even create your own module to be called at in future time using the "import" statement.
For this assignment, we will be using the pickle module. I will describes of importing pickle file as well as screen shots of the pickle module in use. I am also going over exception and error handling, their definitions.


Pickling in Python : Pickle in Python is primarily used in serializing and deserializing a Python object structure. In other words, it’s the process of converting a Python object into a byte stream to store it in a file/database, maintain program state across sessions, or transport data over the network. The pickled byte stream can be used to re-create the original object hierarchy by unpickling the stream. This whole process is similar to object serialization in Java. External site https://www.synopsys.com/blogs/software-security/python-pickling/

Advantage of using Pickel in Python:

Advantages of using Pickle Module: external site https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/understanding-python-pickling-example/
Recursive objects (objects containing references to themselves): Pickle keeps track of the objects it has already serialized, so later references to the same object won’t be serialized again. (The marshal module breaks for this.) 
Object sharing (references to the same object in different places): This is similar to self- referencing objects; pickle stores the object once, and ensures that all other references point to the master copy. Shared objects remain shared, which can be very important for mutable objects. 
User-defined classes and their instances: Marshal does not support these at all, but pickle can save and restore class instances transparently. The class definition must be importable and live in the same module as when the object was stored. 




Disadvantage of Pickle in Python: external site https://www.quora.com/Are-there-any-drawbacks-in-using-a-pickle-module-for-storing-datasets-in-Python-for-machine-learning
Pickle is slow - Pickle is both slower and produces larger serialized values than most of the alternatives.
Pickle is a security risk - unpickling malicious data can cause security issues, including arbitrary code execution.


 

 


Errors and handling exceptions

When you are programming, you fix your bugs immediately and make sure the code runs smoothly. However, it often happens that other people introduce new bugs when they use your program. For example, they may change the name of a data file, 
causing the file not to be found, or input data that does not fit well with your program's design. 
You can trap these errors in your programs using a try-except block of code. Doing so allows you to customize how your program handles errors instead of just letting Python do that for you. It is a good idea to add a try-except block to your programs whenever you think human interaction might cause a problem 

 




Creating Custom Exception Classes

Common base class for all non-exit exceptions." This message is coming from the Exception class's docstring. It tells an experienced programmer that the Exception class is a "base" class that can be used to create "derived" classes. Derived classes "inherit" data and functions from the base class that can be replaced and customized. 

 











Summary

Using Module7 videos and text book I learn how to import file .I learn how to read file , append in file , combine reading and writing , working with binary files  , Structure error handling using the exception class. Raising custom errors, creating custom error using function ,creating advance git hub . 

